Wed Jun 15, 2016

	Reported Speech (estilo indirecto)
	
		Utiliza "Reported Speech" para comunicar lo que otra persona ha dicho sin usar sus propias palabras. Para reportar lo que se ha dicho, "retrocede" un tiempo verbal.
			Ejemplos:
			
				Direct Speech: He said, "She will not reply."
				Reported Speech: He said that she wouldn't reply.
				
		El uso de "that" es opcional. Si es necesario, cambia el pronombre personal.
		
				Direct Speech: The teacher said, "I like Kibis."
				Reported Speech: The teacher said that he/she liked Kibis.
				
				Direct Speech: Sean said, "That was the best concert ever."
				Reported Speech: Sean said (that) that had been the best concert ever.
				
		Cambia el tiempo verbal de acuerdo a esta tabla.
		
			Direct Speech									Reported Speech
			
		Present Simple								Past Simple
		Present Continuous						Past Continuous
		Present Perfect								Past Perfect
		Past Simple										Past Perfect
		going to											was/were going to
		Past Continuous								Past Perfect Continuous
	
	Verbos Modales
		
		can														could
		must													had to
		will													would
		may														might
		should												should
		
	Expr/esiones de tiempo
		
			now													then
			last week										the week before
			yesterday										the previous day/ the day before
			tonight											that night
			tomorrow										the next day/the following day
			today												that day
			here												there
			this (book)									that (book)
			these (books)								those (books)
				
	Ejercicio: Report these statements.
	
	1. Carmen said, "I'm in love."
		Carmen said that she was in love.
	
	2. Tom said, "I can't play chess."
			Tom said that he couldn't play chess.
	
	3. "I eat chocolate cake every day" said Hilda.
				Hilda said that she ate chocolate cake every day. 
	
	4. My sister said, "I worked in a bar last summer."
			My sister said that she had worked in a bar the summer before.
	
	5. They said, "We will come."
			They said that they would come.
	
	6. Carol said, "I would like to be a lawyer."
			Carol said that she would like to be a lawyer.
	
	7. Dave said, "I'm going to do it again."
			Dave said that he was going to do it again.
	
	8. Dominic said, "I have done all the exercises."
			Dominic said that he had done all the exercises.
	
	9. Victor said, "I'm cold."
			Victor said that he was cold.
	
 10. She said, "I made a mistake."
			She said that she had made a mistake.	
			
			
	What did they originally say?
	
		1. Liz said that she would see me the next day.
				Liz said, "I will see you tomorrow."
		
		2. They said they enjoyed their lesson.
			They said, "We enjoy our lesson."
		
		3. Helen said that the dog was here.
				Helen said, "The dog is here."
		
		4. Mark said it was easy.
				Mark said, "It is easy."
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		
		